docs/guides/agents/langchain.mdx, before:

---
title: LangChain Integration
description: Build AI agents using LangChain framework with Glean's search and chat capabilities
---

import { Icon } from '@site/src/components/Icons';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Card from '@site/src/components/Card';

# <Icon name="langchain" iconSet="glean" className="inline" height="2rem" /> Glean LangChain Integration

Glean's official LangChain integration enables you to build powerful AI agents that can search and reason over your organization's knowledge using Python and the LangChain framework.

<Card
  title="langchain-glean"
  icon="GitHub"
  href="https://github.com/gleanwork/langchain-glean"
>
  Official LangChain integration for Glean's search and chat capabilities
</Card>

### Installation

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="pip" label="pip">

  ```bash 
  pip install -U langchain-glean 
  ```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="poetry" label="poetry">

  ```bash 
  poetry add langchain-glean 
  ```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="uv" label="uv">

  ```bash 
  uv add langchain-glean 
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Configuration

#### API Tokens

You'll need Glean [API credentials](/get-started/authentication), and specifically a [user-scoped API token](/api-info/client/authentication/glean-issued#available-scopes). API Tokens require the following scopes: `chat`, `search`. You should speak to your Glean administrator to provision these tokens.

#### Configure Environment Variables

Configure your Glean credentials by setting the following environment variables:

```bash
export GLEAN_INSTANCE="your-glean-instance"
export GLEAN_API_TOKEN="your-glean-api-token"
export GLEAN_ACT_AS="user@example.com"  # Optional: Email to act as when making requests
```

To determine your `GLEAN_INSTANCE` value, open [about Glean](https://app.glean.com/admin/about-glean) in the admin console and locate the **Server instance (QE):** field. The instance name is the subdomain portion before `-be.glean.com`. For example, if the field shows `https://example-instance-be.glean.com/`, then your instance is `example-instance`.

### Usage Examples

#### Using the Retriever

The `GleanSearchRetriever` allows you to search and retrieve documents from Glean:

```python
from langchain_glean.retrievers import GleanSearchRetriever

# Initialize the retriever (will use environment variables)
retriever = GleanSearchRetriever()

# Search for documents
documents = retriever.invoke("quarterly sales report")

# Process the results
for doc in documents:
    print(f"Title: {doc.metadata.get('title')}")
    print(f"URL: {doc.metadata.get('url')}")
    print(f"Content: {doc.page_content}")
    print("---")
```

#### Building an Agent with Tools

The `GleanSearchTool` can be used in LangChain agents to search Glean:

```python
from langchain_core.prompts import ChatPromptTemplate
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI
from langchain.agents import AgentExecutor, create_openai_tools_agent
from langchain_glean.retrievers import GleanSearchRetriever
from langchain_glean.tools import GleanSearchTool

# Initialize the retriever
retriever = GleanSearchRetriever()

# Create the tool
glean_tool = GleanSearchTool(
    retriever=retriever,
    name="glean_search",
    description="Search for information in your organization's content using Glean."
)

# Create an agent with the tool
llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4o")
prompt = ChatPromptTemplate.from_messages([
    ("system", "You are a helpful assistant with access to Glean search."),
    ("user", "{input}")
])

agent = create_openai_tools_agent(llm, [glean_tool], prompt)
agent_executor = AgentExecutor(agent=agent, tools=[glean_tool])

# Run the agent
response = agent_executor.invoke({"input": "Find the latest quarterly report"})
print(response["output"])
```

#### RAG with LangChain Chains

You can integrate the retriever with LangChain chains for more complex workflows:

```python
from langchain_core.output_parsers import StrOutputParser
from langchain_core.prompts import ChatPromptTemplate
from langchain_core.runnables import RunnablePassthrough
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI
from langchain_glean.retrievers import GleanSearchRetriever

# Initialize the retriever
retriever = GleanSearchRetriever()

# Create a prompt template
prompt = ChatPromptTemplate.from_template(
    """Answer the question based only on the context provided.

Context: {context}

Question: {question}"""
)

# Initialize the language model
llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4o")

# Format documents function
def format_docs(docs):
    return "\n\n".join(doc.page_content for doc in docs)

# Create the chain
chain = (
    {"context": retriever | format_docs, "question": RunnablePassthrough()}
    | prompt
    | llm
    | StrOutputParser()
)

# Run the chain
result = chain.invoke("What were our Q2 sales results?")
print(result)
```

### Advanced Usage

#### Search Parameters

You can customize your search by passing additional parameters:

```python
# Search with additional parameters
documents = retriever.invoke(
    "quarterly sales report",
    page_size=5,  # Number of results to return
    disable_spellcheck=True,  # Disable spellcheck
    max_snippet_size=200  # Maximum snippet size
)
```

#### Custom Retriever Configuration

Configure the retriever with custom settings:

```python
# Initialize with custom settings
retriever = GleanSearchRetriever(
    instance="your-instance",  # Override environment variable
    api_token="your-api-token",  # Override environment variable
    act_as="user@example.com",   # Override environment variable
    page_size=10,               # Default number of results
    max_snippet_size=300        # Default snippet size
)
```

For the complete API documentation and implementation details, visit the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/gleanwork/langchain-glean).

Commit message:

docs: Adding information on how to retrieve your Glean instance name

docs/guides/agents/langchain.mdx, after:

---
title: LangChain Integration
description: Build AI agents using LangChain framework with Glean's search and chat capabilities
---

import { Icon } from '@site/src/components/Icons';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Card from '@site/src/components/Card';

# <Icon name="langchain" iconSet="glean" className="inline" height="2rem" /> Glean LangChain Integration

Glean's official LangChain integration enables you to build powerful AI agents that can search and reason over your organization's knowledge using Python and the LangChain framework.

<Card
  title="langchain-glean"
  icon="GitHub"
  href="https://github.com/gleanwork/langchain-glean"
>
  Official LangChain integration for Glean's search and chat capabilities
</Card>

### Installation

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="pip" label="pip">

  ```bash 
  pip install -U langchain-glean 
  ```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="poetry" label="poetry">

  ```bash 
  poetry add langchain-glean 
  ```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="uv" label="uv">

  ```bash 
  uv add langchain-glean 
  ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Configuration

#### API Tokens

You'll need Glean [API credentials](/get-started/authentication), and specifically a [user-scoped API token](/api-info/client/authentication/glean-issued#available-scopes). API Tokens require the following scopes: `chat`, `search`. You should speak to your Glean administrator to provision these tokens.

#### Configure Environment Variables

Configure your Glean credentials by setting the following environment variables:

```bash
export GLEAN_INSTANCE="your-glean-instance"
export GLEAN_API_TOKEN="your-glean-api-token"
export GLEAN_ACT_AS="user@example.com"  # Optional: Email to act as when making requests
```

To determine your `GLEAN_INSTANCE` value, see our [instance lookup guide](/get-started/authentication#finding-your-glean-instance) for detailed instructions.

### Usage Examples

#### Using the Retriever

The `GleanSearchRetriever` allows you to search and retrieve documents from Glean:

```python
from langchain_glean.retrievers import GleanSearchRetriever

# Initialize the retriever (will use environment variables)
retriever = GleanSearchRetriever()

# Search for documents
documents = retriever.invoke("quarterly sales report")

# Process the results
for doc in documents:
    print(f"Title: {doc.metadata.get('title')}")
    print(f"URL: {doc.metadata.get('url')}")
    print(f"Content: {doc.page_content}")
    print("---")
```

#### Building an Agent with Tools

The `GleanSearchTool` can be used in LangChain agents to search Glean:

```python
from langchain_core.prompts import ChatPromptTemplate
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI
from langchain.agents import AgentExecutor, create_openai_tools_agent
from langchain_glean.retrievers import GleanSearchRetriever
from langchain_glean.tools import GleanSearchTool

# Initialize the retriever
retriever = GleanSearchRetriever()

# Create the tool
glean_tool = GleanSearchTool(
    retriever=retriever,
    name="glean_search",
    description="Search for information in your organization's content using Glean."
)

# Create an agent with the tool
llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4o")
prompt = ChatPromptTemplate.from_messages([
    ("system", "You are a helpful assistant with access to Glean search."),
    ("user", "{input}")
])

agent = create_openai_tools_agent(llm, [glean_tool], prompt)
agent_executor = AgentExecutor(agent=agent, tools=[glean_tool])

# Run the agent
response = agent_executor.invoke({"input": "Find the latest quarterly report"})
print(response["output"])
```

#### RAG with LangChain Chains

You can integrate the retriever with LangChain chains for more complex workflows:

```python
from langchain_core.output_parsers import StrOutputParser
from langchain_core.prompts import ChatPromptTemplate
from langchain_core.runnables import RunnablePassthrough
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI
from langchain_glean.retrievers import GleanSearchRetriever

# Initialize the retriever
retriever = GleanSearchRetriever()

# Create a prompt template
prompt = ChatPromptTemplate.from_template(
    """Answer the question based only on the context provided.

Context: {context}

Question: {question}"""
)

# Initialize the language model
llm = ChatOpenAI(model="gpt-4o")

# Format documents function
def format_docs(docs):
    return "\n\n".join(doc.page_content for doc in docs)

# Create the chain
chain = (
    {"context": retriever | format_docs, "question": RunnablePassthrough()}
    | prompt
    | llm
    | StrOutputParser()
)

# Run the chain
result = chain.invoke("What were our Q2 sales results?")
print(result)
```

### Advanced Usage

#### Search Parameters

You can customize your search by passing additional parameters:

```python
# Search with additional parameters
documents = retriever.invoke(
    "quarterly sales report",
    page_size=5,  # Number of results to return
    disable_spellcheck=True,  # Disable spellcheck
    max_snippet_size=200  # Maximum snippet size
)
```

#### Custom Retriever Configuration

Configure the retriever with custom settings:

```python
# Initialize with custom settings
retriever = GleanSearchRetriever(
    instance="your-instance",  # Override environment variable
    api_token="your-api-token",  # Override environment variable
    act_as="user@example.com",   # Override environment variable
    page_size=10,               # Default number of results
    max_snippet_size=300        # Default snippet size
)
```

For the complete API documentation and implementation details, visit the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/gleanwork/langchain-glean).
