docs/guides/mcp/RemoteMCPContent.mdx, before:

import React, { useMemo, useContext } from 'react';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import { Icon } from '@site/src/components/Icons';
import MCPConfigurator from '@site/src/components/MCPConfigurator';
import Card from '@site/src/components/Card';
import Admonition from '@theme/Admonition';
import { CLIENT, MCPConfigRegistry } from '@gleanwork/mcp-config-schema/browser';
import { clientNeedsMcpRemote } from '@gleanwork/mcp-config-schema';
import { FeatureFlagsContext } from '@site/src/theme/Root';

export const CompatibilityTable = () => {
  const registry = useMemo(() => new MCPConfigRegistry(), []);
  const { isEnabled } = useContext(FeatureFlagsContext);
  const showClaudeTeams = isEnabled('show-claude-teams');

  const compatibilityData = useMemo(() => {
    if (!registry) return [];

    const allClients = registry.getAllConfigs();
    return allClients
      .filter(
        (client) =>
          showClaudeTeams || client.id !== CLIENT.CLAUDE_TEAMS_ENTERPRISE,
      )
      .map((client) => {
        const config = registry.getConfig(client.id);

        let oauthMethod = 'Bridge';
        if (config?.transports?.includes('http') && !clientNeedsMcpRemote(client.id)) {
          oauthMethod = 'Native';
        }

        let configMethod = 'Quick Installer / CLI / Manual';
        if (client.id === CLIENT.CHATGPT) {
          configMethod = 'Custom Setup';
        } else if (config?.localConfigSupport === 'none') {
          configMethod = 'Administrator Setup';
        } else if (config?.oneClick) {
          configMethod = 'One-Click / CLI / Manual';
        }

        return {
          name: client.displayName,
          oauthMethod,
          configMethod,
          hasOneClick: !!config?.oneClick,
          requiresBridge: config?.transports?.includes('stdio') && !config?.transports?.includes('http'),
        };
      })
      .sort((a, b) => a.name.localeCompare(b.name));
  }, [registry, showClaudeTeams]);

  return (
    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th>MCP Host Application</th>
          <th>Recommended OAuth Method</th>
          <th>Configuration Method</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        {compatibilityData.map((client, index) => (
          <tr key={index}>
            <td>{client.name}</td>
            <td>{client.oauthMethod}</td>
            <td>{client.configMethod}</td>
          </tr>
        ))}
      </tbody>
    </table>
  );
};

# <Icon name="mcp" iconSet="glean" className="inline" height="1.4rem" /> Model Context Protocol (MCP) Remote Server

Connect your AI tools to Glean's enterprise knowledge base with zero setup required. The Remote MCP Server is built directly into Glean's platform, providing instant access to your organization's data through any MCP-compatible host application.

<Admonition type="info" title="Public Beta">
  <p>
    The Remote MCP Server is available to all Glean customers during the
    public beta period.
  </p>
  <p>
    <strong>General Availability:</strong> Targeting late September 2025
  </p>
</Admonition>

## Install Now

Get started in seconds with our quick installer. Select your host application, enter your Glean instance details, and you're ready to go.

<MCPConfigurator />

<Admonition type="tip">
  <p>
    For ChatGPT Connectors and Claude for Teams/Enterprise, administrator
    setup is required. The configurator will provide instructions when you
    select these hosts.
  </p>
</Admonition>

<details>
  <summary>Host Compatibility</summary>

  MCP host compatibility is evolving. The table below reflects validated support and our recommended OAuth method:

  <CompatibilityTable />
</details>

---

## Available Servers

During the public beta, we're providing access to two specialized MCP servers:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="tools" label="Tools Server (Default)">
    <p>
      The Tools Server provides unified access to Glean's core
      capabilities through a streamlined interface. This server is ideal
      for general-purpose AI interactions with your enterprise data.
    </p>

    <p>
      <strong>Endpoint:</strong>{' '}
      <code>https://[instance]-be.glean.com/mcp/default</code>
    </p>

    <p>
      <strong>Key Features:</strong>
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>Comprehensive search across all your connected data sources</li>
      <li>Intelligent chat interactions with context awareness</li>
      <li>Document retrieval and analysis</li>
      <li>People directory search</li>
    </ul>
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="chatgpt" label="ChatGPT Server">
    <p>
      The ChatGPT Server is optimized specifically for ChatGPT Connectors,
      providing seamless integration with OpenAI's ChatGPT workspace.
    </p>

    <p>
      <strong>Endpoint:</strong>{' '}
      <code>https://[instance]-be.glean.com/mcp/chatgpt</code>
    </p>

    <p>
      <strong>Key Features:</strong>
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>Conforms to OpenAI's MCP [Connector spec](https://platform.openai.com/docs/mcp)</li>
      <li>Optimized response formatting for ChatGPT</li>
      <li>Automatic citation handling</li>
      <li>Token-efficient responses</li>
    </ul>

    <Admonition type="tip">
      <p>
        Use this endpoint specifically for ChatGPT integrations as it uses
        tool naming conventions that ChatGPT expects (e.g., "fetch"
        instead of "read_document").
      </p>
    </Admonition>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Core Capabilities

The remote MCP server exposes a curated set of Glean capabilities as MCP tools. Administrators can enable defaults and optionally add more.

### Default Tools

- **`search`** (Search) - Search across your entire knowledge base
- **`chat`** (Chat) - Interactive conversations with Glean's AI
- **`read_document`** (Read Document) - Retrieve specific documents by ID or URL

### Additional Configurable Tools

- **`code_search`** (Code Search) - Search your codebase and repositories
- **`employee_search`** (Employee Search) - Find people and expertise in your organization
- **`gmail_search`** (Gmail Search) - Search Gmail messages and threads
- **`meeting_lookup`** (Meeting Lookup) - Find meeting recordings and notes
- **`outlook_search`** (Outlook Search) - Search Outlook emails and calendar

---

## Local MCP Server

You can also use Glean's open-source stdio MCP server:

<Card title="@gleanwork/local-mcp-server" icon="GitHub">
  <p>
    Self-hosted MCP server implementation for Glean's search and chat
    capabilities
  </p>
  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/gleanwork/mcp-server">View on GitHub</a>
  </p>
</Card>

The local server is ideal for:
- Development and testing
- Air-gapped environments
- Custom tool development
- Full control over the server infrastructure

Commit message:

feat: MCP Troubleshooting
List the commands for resetting DCR client ids for vscode-based hosts

docs/guides/mcp/RemoteMCPContent.mdx, after:

import React, { useMemo, useContext } from 'react';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import { Icon } from '@site/src/components/Icons';
import MCPConfigurator from '@site/src/components/MCPConfigurator';
import Card from '@site/src/components/Card';
import Admonition from '@theme/Admonition';
import { CLIENT, MCPConfigRegistry } from '@gleanwork/mcp-config-schema/browser';
import { clientNeedsMcpRemote } from '@gleanwork/mcp-config-schema';
import { FeatureFlagsContext } from '@site/src/theme/Root';

export const CompatibilityTable = () => {
  const registry = useMemo(() => new MCPConfigRegistry(), []);
  const { isEnabled } = useContext(FeatureFlagsContext);
  const showClaudeTeams = isEnabled('show-claude-teams');

  const compatibilityData = useMemo(() => {
    if (!registry) return [];

    const allClients = registry.getAllConfigs();
    return allClients
      .filter(
        (client) =>
          showClaudeTeams || client.id !== CLIENT.CLAUDE_TEAMS_ENTERPRISE,
      )
      .map((client) => {
        const config = registry.getConfig(client.id);

        let oauthMethod = 'Bridge';
        if (config?.transports?.includes('http') && !clientNeedsMcpRemote(client.id)) {
          oauthMethod = 'Native';
        }

        let configMethod = 'Quick Installer / CLI / Manual';
        if (client.id === CLIENT.CHATGPT) {
          configMethod = 'Custom Setup';
        } else if (config?.localConfigSupport === 'none') {
          configMethod = 'Administrator Setup';
        } else if (config?.oneClick) {
          configMethod = 'One-Click / CLI / Manual';
        }

        return {
          name: client.displayName,
          oauthMethod,
          configMethod,
          hasOneClick: !!config?.oneClick,
          requiresBridge: config?.transports?.includes('stdio') && !config?.transports?.includes('http'),
        };
      })
      .sort((a, b) => a.name.localeCompare(b.name));
  }, [registry, showClaudeTeams]);

  return (
    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th>MCP Host Application</th>
          <th>Recommended OAuth Method</th>
          <th>Configuration Method</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        {compatibilityData.map((client, index) => (
          <tr key={index}>
            <td>{client.name}</td>
            <td>{client.oauthMethod}</td>
            <td>{client.configMethod}</td>
          </tr>
        ))}
      </tbody>
    </table>
  );
};

# <Icon name="mcp" iconSet="glean" className="inline" height="1.4rem" /> Model Context Protocol (MCP) Remote Server

Connect your AI tools to Glean's enterprise knowledge base with zero setup required. The Remote MCP Server is built directly into Glean's platform, providing instant access to your organization's data through any MCP-compatible host application.

<Admonition type="info" title="Public Beta">
  <p>
    The Remote MCP Server is available to all Glean customers during the
    public beta period.
  </p>
  <p>
    <strong>General Availability:</strong> Targeting late September 2025
  </p>
</Admonition>

## Install Now

Get started in seconds with our quick installer. Select your host application, enter your Glean instance details, and you're ready to go.

<MCPConfigurator />

<Admonition type="tip">
  <p>
    For ChatGPT Connectors and Claude for Teams/Enterprise, administrator
    setup is required. The configurator will provide instructions when you
    select these hosts.
  </p>
</Admonition>

<details>
  <summary>Host Compatibility</summary>

  MCP host compatibility is evolving. The table below reflects validated support and our recommended OAuth method:

  <CompatibilityTable />
</details>

---

## Available Servers

During the public beta, we're providing access to two specialized MCP servers:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="tools" label="Tools Server (Default)">
    <p>
      The Tools Server provides unified access to Glean's core
      capabilities through a streamlined interface. This server is ideal
      for general-purpose AI interactions with your enterprise data.
    </p>

    <p>
      <strong>Endpoint:</strong>{' '}
      <code>https://[instance]-be.glean.com/mcp/default</code>
    </p>

    <p>
      <strong>Key Features:</strong>
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>Comprehensive search across all your connected data sources</li>
      <li>Intelligent chat interactions with context awareness</li>
      <li>Document retrieval and analysis</li>
      <li>People directory search</li>
    </ul>
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="chatgpt" label="ChatGPT Server">
    <p>
      The ChatGPT Server is optimized specifically for ChatGPT Connectors,
      providing seamless integration with OpenAI's ChatGPT workspace.
    </p>

    <p>
      <strong>Endpoint:</strong>{' '}
      <code>https://[instance]-be.glean.com/mcp/chatgpt</code>
    </p>

    <p>
      <strong>Key Features:</strong>
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>Conforms to OpenAI's MCP [Connector spec](https://platform.openai.com/docs/mcp)</li>
      <li>Optimized response formatting for ChatGPT</li>
      <li>Automatic citation handling</li>
      <li>Token-efficient responses</li>
    </ul>

    <Admonition type="tip">
      <p>
        Use this endpoint specifically for ChatGPT integrations as it uses
        tool naming conventions that ChatGPT expects (e.g., "fetch"
        instead of "read_document").
      </p>
    </Admonition>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Core Capabilities

The remote MCP server exposes a curated set of Glean capabilities as MCP tools. Administrators can enable defaults and optionally add more.

### Default Tools

- **`search`** (Search) - Search across your entire knowledge base
- **`chat`** (Chat) - Interactive conversations with Glean's AI
- **`read_document`** (Read Document) - Retrieve specific documents by ID or URL

### Additional Configurable Tools

- **`code_search`** (Code Search) - Search your codebase and repositories
- **`employee_search`** (Employee Search) - Find people and expertise in your organization
- **`gmail_search`** (Gmail Search) - Search Gmail messages and threads
- **`meeting_lookup`** (Meeting Lookup) - Find meeting recordings and notes
- **`outlook_search`** (Outlook Search) - Search Outlook emails and calendar

---

## Troubleshooting

#### Client Authentication Failed

When repeatedly connecting and disconnecting, some host applications may end up using stale client ids.  If you see the message

> Client authentication failed (e.g., unknown client, no client authentication included, or unsupported authentication method). The requested OAuth 2.0 Client does not exist.

while authenticating, you can clear your MCP credentials and re-authenticate.  Doing so is specific to the MCP host application.

* **Visual Studio Code** - Run the command `Authentication: Remove Dynamic Authentication Providers`
* **Cursor** - Run the command `Cursor: Clear All MCP Tokens`



## Local MCP Server

You can also use Glean's open-source stdio MCP server:

<Card title="@gleanwork/local-mcp-server" icon="GitHub">
  <p>
    Self-hosted MCP server implementation for Glean's search and chat
    capabilities
  </p>
  <p>
    <a href="https://github.com/gleanwork/mcp-server">View on GitHub</a>
  </p>
</Card>

The local server is ideal for:
- Development and testing
- Air-gapped environments
- Custom tool development
- Full control over the server infrastructure
